---
title: July 14, 2014 (v9.0)
category: iOS
---

# Gaia GPS iOS v9.0
    
This will be Gaia's fifth season out in the woods, and for Gaia 9, we've engineered a big leap forward in app performance and features. We've been working on this release since about February, and we hope the improvements help you plan, explore, and stay safe.

## Faster Maps
Gaia 9 brings you a faster map engine - like the stock Maps app, Gaia 9 uses hardware acceleration (OpenGL) to make the maps fast and responsive, and perform great when displaying a lot of tracks and POIs.
      
## Tap Tracks on Map
Gaia 9 lets you tap tracks and routes on the map to show details. This has been a long-standing user request, and we're happy to make it happen in Gaia 9.
      
## Vector Topos (experimental)
Display and download vector topo maps. This is an experimental source you can add by going to "More Sources" in the main map menu. We built a worldwide vector map server and styled the maps from scratch, using OpenStreetMap data, and recent technology standards pioneered by MapBox.
        
On iPhone5 and iPad mini, you get a very fast, small-to-download, detailed, and pretty worldwide topo source, styled to look similar to traditional USGS cartography. We are still working to improve performance for older iPad and iPhones, and to improve the style of the map at all zoom levels.
      
## New Route-Maker
The route-maker has been updated to a new design that we think you'll find better in every way.
      
## Updated Art
We've always found it hard to settle on an icon that captures what Gaia GPS does, but we think the new icon succeeds, combining the elements of maps, trails, and nature that define Gaia. In addition, the art has been refined and unified:
* map pins and icons
* menu and button icons
* colors/hue of app
      
## Many More Improvements
* better recording controls
better map download controls
attach photos to tracks from camera roll
import KML locally (email attachments, DropBox, etc), without an internet connection
slimmer instruments bar on map
voice over for distance markers
display Map Center coordinate in instrument bar on map
improvements to Details screen UI
better Twitter and Facebook sharing
      
## For GaiaPro Subscribers
* custom map view for external displays
* expanded and updated custom POI icon set
* recent improvements on website too, for route-making and printing
      
## Other Notes
* We renamed World Topo to be Cycling Topo (and it used to be called OpenCycleMap). Sorry for the confusion.
* We disabled clustering of markers, let us know if that bugs you.
